---
title: "Structural block driven enhanced convolutional neural representation for relation extraction"
collection: publications

excerpt: 'Twe propose a novel lightweight relation extraction approach of structural block driven convolutional neural learning.' 
date: 2020-01-01
venue: 'Applied Soft Computing'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494619306945'
citation: 'Wang, D., Tiwari, P., Garg, S., Zhu, H., & Bruza, P. (2020). Structural block driven enhanced convolutional neural representation for relation extraction. Applied Soft Computing, 86, 105913.'
---
In this paper, we propose a novel lightweight relation extraction approach of structural block driven convolutional neural learning. Specifically, we detect the essential sequential tokens associated with entities through dependency analysis, named as a structural block, and only encode the block on a block-wise and an inter-block-wise representation, utilizing multi-scale Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). This is to (1) eliminate the noisy from irrelevant part of a sentence; meanwhile (2) enhance the relevant block representation with both block-wise and inter-block-wise semantically enriched representation. Our method has the advantage of being independent of long sentence context since we only encode the sequential tokens within a block boundary. Experiments on two datasets i.e., SemEval2010 and KBP37, demonstrate the significant advantages of our method. In particular, we achieve the new state-of-the-art performance on the KBP37 dataset; and comparable performance with the state-of-the-art on the SemEval2010 dataset.

[Download paper here](https://github.com/prayagtiwari/prayagtiwari.github.io/tree/master/files/ASOC.pdf)

Recommended citation: Wang, D., Tiwari, P., Garg, S., Zhu, H., & Bruza, P. (2020). Structural block driven enhanced convolutional neural representation for relation extraction. Applied Soft Computing, 86, 105913.
.
