---
title: "Kernel Method based on Non-Linear Coherent States in Quantum Feature Space"
collection: publications

excerpt: 'we propose quantum kernel functions based on generalized hypergeometric functions, as orthogonal polynomial functions'
date: 2022-07-15
venue: 'Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical'
paperurl: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1751-8121/ac818e/meta'
citation: 'Tiwari, P., Dehdashti, S., Obeid, A. K., Marttinen, P., & Bruza, P. (2022). Kernel Method based on Non-Linear Coherent States in Quantum Feature Space. Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical.'
---
In this paper, by mapping datasets to a set of non-linear coherent states, the process of encoding inputs in quantum states as a non-linear feature map is re-interpreted. As a result of the fact that the Radial Basis Function is recovered when data is mapped to a complex Hilbert state represented by coherent states, non-linear coherent states can be considered as a natural generalisation of the associated kernels. In this paper, as an example of kernels based on non-linear coherent states, we propose kernel functions based on generalized hypergeometric functions, as orthogonal polynomial functions. The suggested kernel is implemented with the support vector machine on two well known datasets (make circles, and make moons) and outperforms the baselines, even when the level of noise is high. In addition, we study the impact of the geometrical properties of the feature space, obtained by the non-linear coherent states, on the SVM classiﬁcation task, by considering the Fubini-Study metric of the associated coherent states.

[Download paper here](https://github.com/prayagtiwari/prayagtiwari.github.io/tree/master/files/KMNCS.pdf)

Recommended citation: Tiwari, P., Dehdashti, S., Obeid, A. K., Marttinen, P., & Bruza, P. (2022). Kernel Method based on Non-Linear Coherent States in Quantum Feature Space. Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical.
